{% include navbar.html %}


# <u>5.1 - 5.2 Notes</u>

## <u>5.1 - Beneficial and Harmful Effects</u>
- The way people complete tasks - change to incorporate new computing innovations
- Not all effects are anticipated in advance
- Can be viewed both beneficial and harmful
- Advances in computing - increased creativity in other fields
- Ex: Accelerometers - useful for games and other applications for motion detection
- Consider unintended consequences of your computing innovation
- Not possible to consider all ways, but at least consider some
- Consider malicious ways
Rapid sharing can result impacts beyond intention or control of programmer
## <u>5.2 - Digital Divide</u>
- Internet access varies between:
- Socioeconomic
- Geographic
- Demographic
- Countries
- “Digital Divide” - Differing access to computing and internet
- Group and individuals affected, issues of equity and influence
- Affected by the actions of individuals, organizations, governments

# <u>5.1 Actions</u>
## 1. 
1. Beneficial in that there is easy access to entertainment such as television and video games that are more entertaining than before. Harmful effects may be that people become easily addicted to these new games and spend less time doing other things. 
2. Social media and more personalization so you can share with friends and family on what you're doing. Harmful in the sense that the app or others can possibly collect private data on you. 
3. More access to information for research and other topics. Harmful in the sense that more information means also easy access to misinformation, possibly misinforming more people at the same time. 

## 2.
In my life and others that I know I believe that dopamine is real, and usually is the chemical that motivates me to do things and not get burnt out doing them. While dopamine can aid me in learning about topics I am interested in, it can also come from things that may be considered a waste of time and dragging me away from school work. Too much dopamine from not doing school related work may lower my High School success. 

# <u>5.2 Actions</u>
## 1.
Someone can empower themselves in a digital world by first accessing a digital device such as a smartphone or computer. From there it is up to the user to learn and configure how to work this device and also access the internet. They also should care to learn more about the world through this digital device. It is also up to them to empower others to slowly decrease the digital divide. 

## 2.
You can simply empower others by lending him/her a device and teaching them how to use it. You can also aid this person by introducing them new information and also introducing places to where you can learn more. Within Del Norte not only are there clubs and classes based around technology, but because most people at Del Norte at least own a smartphone you can simply show them around it with verbal instruction if they don't know about it already. 

## 3
There is red tape on digital empowerment whether it be because of economical issues or even political issues.  Within certain nations there are economic issues that restrain the common person from obtaining technology. In certain nations there are also established firewalls or blocked internet like China or North Korea. At Del Norte even there are restrictions on what you can and can't access while on their WiFi. While to prevent a student from viewing malicious websites, it also has a harmful effect of blocking all websites it does not recognize, like even our deployed PBL website. 
