{% include navbar.html %}


# <u>5.3 - 5.4 Notes</u>

## <u>5.3 Computing Bias </u>
- Bias exists everywhere, need to strive to eliminate it in programs\
- Intentional and unintentional
- Casual vs sweaty, demographics, target audience
- Enhancing vs intentionally excluding
- Harmful?
- Important to receive feedback from variety of users to eliminate bias that they encounter

## <u>5.4 Crowdsourcing</u>
- Widespread access to information and data allows for solutions to problems and results
- Distributed Computing - give power/computing power for faster calculations
- Citizen Science - scientific research conducted in a whole or part by distributed individuals, don’t have to be scientists
- Crowdsourcing is practice of obtaining input or info from a large number of people via the internet
- More collaboration and connections

# <u>5.3 Actions</u>
## 1. 
1. I don't believe the owner thought it was intentional
2. He was complaining in a joking manner and asking why computers don't pick up African Americans in a sarcastic way. 
3. I think this happened because the sample size for HP's testing or there test group was simply not big enough and inclusive. They likely only really had lighter skinned individuals come in and have their software tested/coded off of them.
4. Since I do not believe the intentions from HP were harmful, I don't think the software not working is harmful, just an inconvenience to darker skinned people. Now if their intentions were to exclude, which I don't believe was, that is questionable on the behaf of HP.
5. Yes it should definetly be corrected.
6. Make sure to test your software or code it based off a very inclusive group rather than a small group with no diversity. 

# <u>5.4 Actions</u>
## 1.
Crowdsourcing within classrooms may be a bit easier since Teachers can require students to do about anything for the class. For example, in CSP, I can request teachers to require students to report or show their computer code from assignments to find the most optimal code for the assignment. From there CSP students can analyze the code the improve their own code. 


## 2.
For Del Norte crowdsourcing, one can just request students to submit project ideas for ASB in order to organize better events at the Del Norte school. With new ideas and information of any project ideas, Del Norte events should surely improve. 

As for our final project in CSP, we have a website for 3D development club. Here we can have club members submit requests or surveys in order to understand what the student wants to work on. 
