{% include navbar.html %}

# <u> 5.5-5.6 Notes </u> 

## <u>5.5 Legal and Ethical Concerns </u>
- There are concerns
- Intellectual Property(IP) - Creation or invention from creativity to which one has rights
- Copyright creates/protects your IP to prevent people from using it without property; prevents plagiarism
- Legal ways to use something else - Open Source, Creative Commons, Open Access
- Creative Commons provides licenses for free that also tells you what you can or can’t do with your IP
- Open Access - research output free of any restrictions, free of copyright or license
- Digital Divide - Unequal distribution of access to tech

## <u>5.6 Safe Computing </u>
- Personally Identifiable INformation (PII) - Info specific to individual
    - SSN
    - Age
    - Race
    - Phone Number
    - Email
    - Etc
- PII only shared with trusted individuals or sites
- Search engines record history of what you browsed 
- PII can enhance user experience, but also can be exploited if privacy protections ignored
    - Can have harmful impacts
- Info hard to delete - posted onto social media can be easily used by others and other sources to get info on you
- Strong Passwords - > 10 characters, symbol, #s, casing variation, and no easy words
- Multi Factor Authentication - Info you know, what you are, or things you have like a palm print
- Malware - damages computer by taking the operation over, can infiltrate in a multitude of ways
- Do virus scans to prevent malware
- Encryption ensures safety and message sent over system, encodes the data to prevent unauthorized access
    - Symmetric - One key to encrypt and decrypt data
    - Asymmetric (Public Key Encryption) - two keys
        - Public for encrypting
        - Private for decrypting (required)
- Decryption decodes the data
- Digital Certificates - validates ownership of encryption keys 
Phishing - trick for personal information through emails from something you trust, have an attachment that one clicked downloads malware onto pc like a keylogger, spoofed site, virus
    - Keylogger - Records keystroke made from user to gain info on passwords
    - Rogue Access Point - Wireless network that gives unauthorized access to secure networks
    
# <u>5.5 Actions</u>
## 1.
There are multiple licenses being the Open Source GPL, MIT, and the Creative Commons license. Creative Commons really allows for anybody to access your code and use it, as you have dedicated rights to the public without copyright. The MIT license allows for both public and private use without many restrictions for coding and are able to distrute closed versions. The GPL license, what we used, is good for having a project where anyone can use your code, just unable to distrubte closed sources. 

## 2.
License used and created, used GNU General Public License 3.0 because we want to share our designs for our website page for other clubs looking to create websites as well. 

# <u>5.6 Actions</u>
## 1. 
Some PIIs I have seen around comp sci are things like phone numbers for our sponsor and other school emails which include a portion of the schoold ID and name as well.

## 2. 
I think certain PIIs are fine for others to know and can also allow it to introduce yourself; however, certain PIIs like your Social Security number or home address sometimes is not good to be exposed, and can lead to really bad things happening for you in the future. It is best to keep most PIIs unexposed, and expose those that will not hurt you in the future. 

## 3.
Good passwords are passwords that someone can't just guess easily by having a password cracker or knowing who you are. Try to avoid using actual words or your name, and include special characters, capitilzation, and numbers in order to mix up the password. A bad password would be something anyone can guess instantly, like "123" or your name. 

## 4. 
Symmetric encryption is using one key to decrypt and encrypt data, while asymmertric encryption is having a private key to decrypt data and having a public key to encrypt data. 

## 5. 
HTTPS is encryption on our deployment, which uses TLP to send data back and forth from HTTP and us. 

## 6. 
One phising scheme I fell for was receiving a link from someone I thought I knew and logging onto the website on the fake link with my actual password and username. Luckily I had two factor authentication on, and the website had not thought of implementing a fake authentication, so once I saw there was no popup I realized it was a fake site. 

Some other phishing schemes may include an email with malicious link or having even a fake website setup with an identical link and having you login. 
